CONTRIBUTING.md, before:


## Introduction

Thanks for your interest in contributing to **Elite: Dangerous Journal Server**!

We're excited to have you help out.

Below are some quick guidelines and steps for contributing.

## Guidelines

- This project follows the [Airbnb JavaScript Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)
and as long as you `npm install` you should get the necessary `eslint` dependencies for checking
your code; it's recommended to install the [eslint plugin](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/integrations)
for your editor
- This project makes use of [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/) for consistent file conventions;
ensure you have your editor configured to work with EditorConfig
- This project follows the [semver](http://semver.org/) guidelines for versioning
- This project uses a git pre-commit hook that will prevent commits if eslint finds errors

## Contributing

1. Fork this repository and clone it locally
2. `cd` into your local repo
3. Run `npm install`
4. Make your changes and commit them to your forked repo
5. Open a new Terminal window and run the following command:
```shell
node examples/client/discovery.js
```
6. Open another Terminal window and run the following command:
```shell
node examples/server/index.js
```
7. Notice the successful communication between Terminal windows
8. Fire up *Elite: Dangerous* and trigger some Journal events - entering and leaving the
Galaxy Map fires `Soundtrack` events and can be done without ever leaving a station
9. Exit the client process; exit the server process
10. Run `npm run lint` to make sure there aren't any errors
11. Submit a [Pull Request](https://github.com/DVDAGames/elite-dangerous-journal-server/pulls)
with your changes
12. Accept an Internet High Five from us for helping out

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/wrzf9P70YWLJK/giphy.gif)

Commit message:

Added Issue Reporting notes to CONTRIBUTING.md

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:


## Introduction

Thanks for your interest in contributing to **Elite: Dangerous Journal Server**!

We're excited to have you help out.

Below is some information for Bug Reporting as well as some quick guidelines and steps for contributing.

## Bug Reporting

First, thanks for taking the time to let us know about errors you encounter. This is a very important part of making this software better and your role is paramount to the success of the project.

When creating an Issue, please provide as much detail as possible about what was going on when the error occurred as well as providing the relevant Journal Server broadcast if possible.

All of the following would be helpful to know:

- Dit it occur on the Journal Server or a connected client?
- How many clients were connected?
- Was the play session a single Journal or did it span multiple Journals?
- What type of Journal Event was being broadcast?

We will very likely follow up with more questions, and greatly appreciate your help.

## Guidelines

- This project follows the [Airbnb JavaScript Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)
and as long as you `npm install` you should get the necessary `eslint` dependencies for checking
your code; it's recommended to install the [eslint plugin](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/integrations)
for your editor
- This project makes use of [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/) for consistent file conventions;
ensure you have your editor configured to work with EditorConfig
- This project follows the [semver](http://semver.org/) guidelines for versioning
- This project uses a git pre-commit hook that will prevent commits if eslint finds errors

## Contributing

1. Fork this repository and clone it locally
2. `cd` into your local repo
3. Run `npm install`
4. Make your changes and commit them to your forked repo
5. Open a new Terminal window and run the following command:
```shell
node examples/client/discovery.js
```
6. Open another Terminal window and run the following command:
```shell
node examples/server/index.js
```
7. Notice the successful communication between Terminal windows
8. Fire up *Elite: Dangerous* and trigger some Journal events - entering and leaving the
Galaxy Map fires `Soundtrack` events and can be done without ever leaving a station
9. Exit the client process; exit the server process
10. Run `npm run lint` to make sure there aren't any errors
11. Submit a [Pull Request](https://github.com/DVDAGames/elite-dangerous-journal-server/pulls)
with your changes
12. Accept an Internet High Five from us for helping out

![](https://media.giphy.com/media/wrzf9P70YWLJK/giphy.gif)
